## Reflection


In reflection it could be very tricky designing a class diagram. It can be very difficult when deciding which entities should be added to the diagram and what their relationships are to other entities. There can be difficulties in adding attributes to these entities, designers can either add to little or too many attributes which may make it hard to complete the full design of the system. Methods may become difficult to identify due to the different classes. Designers may add the wrong methods to the wrong entities and there can be difficulties in defining how the methods will function. In regard to abstraction, omitting the inner functions of the system from the user is good practice but attempting to hide too much could confuse stakeholders. Diagrams provide lots of assistance in this regard but may make the system look simpler than what it would be in reality. The diagrams provide good assistance for creating the class diagram, they help in identifying classes and their relationships to each other. Without this documentation it would be an arduous task to create the class diagram. They also aid in identifying objects that would be of imperative importance for the inner working of the system. While this documentation can provide a good starting point for the design of the system, it is however important to modify and add to the system as more needs are identified. One trade off that needs to be investigated is how loosely or how tightly class should be coupled. The system should be designed in such a manner that updates and changes may cause the least amount of disruption. When making changes, it should not cause the system to break or be unavailable. Inheritance was also a factor that caused a bit of confusion. It was very difficult to identify if the Admin class should inherit from the User class. The decision was made that it should inherit from the user class, but the ramifications of this decision may become apparent as the project progresses further. If the Admin class's functions differ too much it can become a problem in the system. Naming of classes became an important factor, providing the wrong name to a class, can confuse stakeholders. For instance, the ClassGroup entity was initially name Class, but this could be confused for the subjects that students attend and not the class group that they belong to. 

Many lessons were learnt about object-oriented design, one of the most important was that complete documentation goes a long way in understanding how a system will function and what elements are needed for it to function. Many think that creating a new system only entails coding and testing the system, but diagrams and user stories aid in designing a more complete project. This will help in future to keep the project within the timeframe decided on. It helps all stakeholders to understand and envision the proposed system in a meaningful manner. In closing the class diagram design of a system should be an ongoing process where changes are added as needed. The more time is spent on building the system the more it becomes apparent that iterative development is needed to  design a more complete system that could assist users in completing daily tasks in a more effective and time efficient manner. Though iterative development may be seen as only a programming task, diagrams should also be constantly revised and updated in order to facilitate communication and to assist the development team in reaching their goals.


